
ABOUT NMTSA
Our Vision
Unleashing the unique potential of individuals with disabilities.

Our Mission
​
NMTSA partners with those impacted by disability to change lives through using the brain’s response to music, and optimizing body and brain connections.  NMTSA assumes the competence of all.

 

Our Core Values

 

NMTSA believes in...

the capability of all people to reach their goals and attain their full potential.

the competence of all people.

the valuable contribution every person has to offer through their unique person and abilities.

the connection of science and relationship, and the impact both have on every person.


Our Story

Neurologic Music Therapy Services of Arizona’s (NMTSA) vision is to unleash the unique potential of individuals with disabilities. NMTSA has provided services to persons with neurologic impairments (ages 18 months to 75+ years of age) and their families in the greater Phoenix area since 1982. 

 

NMTSA is nationally recognized for its evidence-based approach to treatment with persons with neurological impairments, and children with autism specifically. The company and its staff maintain a close relationship with research staff from universities across the country (with emphasis in NMT®, competency-based communication, inclusion, and psychomotor regulation/movement disorders) in order to remain current with best practice approaches for the individuals served.


Our Clinic
NMTSA's clinic space was designed and built to be optimized for NMT activities. It contains eight individual therapy rooms, a large group room for group NMT sessions, administrative offices, a recording studio in which clients can make and produce their own music, and a waiting room. We are committed to providing a safe, fragrance-free environment for all our clients, and are sensitive to other client allergies and needs.


Our Therapists
All of the therapists at NMTSA hold the national certification credential MT-BC issued by the Certification Board for Music Therapists. Additionally, all NMTSA therapists are required to obtain additional advanced clinical training in Neurologic Music Therapy (NMT)® through the Academy of Neurologic Music Therapy® and to maintain Fellowship status with the Academy of Neurologic Music Therapy. Fellowship is maintained by attending NMT Fellowship training every five years, where each therapist must present their clinical work in NMT for evaluation by academy staff.